# Interactive_Phase_Diagram
An interactive phase diagram created as a Masters thesis for the purpose of aiding in your learning of basic materials engineering principles.

Materials science and engineering encompasses many areas of study and is vital in understanding the properties and functions of materials such as metals, polymers, and ceramics. Phase diagrams, which show a material’s phase changes with respect to temperature, composition, and pressure, are important tools used in this field but can be difficult to read and understand. Improvements to phase diagrams, such as adding more information on phases and making them more visually appealing, could provide students with a better understanding of material properties and aid in their experimental results.
This research project aims to utilise the impact that interactivity and visual learning can have on engineering students to create an interactive equilibrium phase diagram of the iron-carbon (Fe-C) chemical system for the purposes of teaching students about basic materials science principles highlighted in the Fe-C system.
Research was launched into engineering education and interactivity to determine optimal designs of lessons and interactive features. The Fe-C was researched to form a comprehensive understanding of the content to be displayed by the interactive learning tool. Investigation into software development was launched to determine how the interactive phase diagram would be built, with Unity being selected as the programming platform showing the most promise.
The interactive tool is named IronCarbon+ and development begins when research is concluded. The basic functionality involves the user clicking on a phase or area of interest to activate a panel of information that would teach the user about that area. To teach microstructure formation, the user clicks on an area of the phase diagram to activate a scrollbar representing an alloy.
Moving the scrollbar would allow the user to impose cooling on the alloy and watch its microstructure develop accordingly. IronCarbon+ underwent 5 distict stages of development where these functions were expanded upon and features such as problem-based learning (PBL) were added and expanded upon. A lecture to engineering students was dedicated to a demonstration of the final version of IronCarbon+ and feedback was collected from students that were given time to experiment with IronCarbon+.
The feedback of students concluded that IronCarbon+ allowed the students to form a more comprehensive understanding of the topics being taught. Iron-Carbon+ fostered a higher interest in materials science and engineering on the students’ part, and students agreed that they would prefer if more concepts were taught to them in this format. Students also provided valuable points of constructive criticism that allow for credible improvements to be made to future versions of IronCarbon+ and interactive learning tools like it.
